release-mode: add a new page about release management modes (#92)
bump-sh/docs: docs/help/publish-documentation/release-management.md

# Release management

Any new deployment made from the [web console](/getting-started/quick-start.md#step-2-upload-your-file), or from the [CLI](/bump-cli.md#deploy-a-file), or from the [Github Action](/continuous-integration/github-actions.md#deploy-on-git-push), will be visible in your deployments history list from your documentation dashboard, by selecting the Deployments tab.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![](/files/help/deployments-list.png)

</div>

> On this list your can see the state of each deployment (`enqueued`, `deploying` or `deployed`) and also their status (`Released` or `Not released`).

Author: :+1:

> This help page describes the two possible release management flow on Bump.sh. You can choose between _[Automatic Release](#automatic-release)_ (default for every new documentation) or _[Manual Release](#manual-release)_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This help page describes the two possible release management flows on Bump.sh. You can choose between _[Automatic Release](#automatic-release)_ (default for every new documentation) or _[Manual Release](#manual-release)_.
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![](/files/help/deployments-list.png)

</div>

On this list your can see the state of each deployment (`enqueued`, `deploying`, `deployed` or `errored`) and also their status (`Released` or `Not released`).

This help page describes the two possible release management flows on Bump.sh. You can choose between _[Automatic Release](#automatic-release)_ (default for every new documentation) or _[Manual Release](#manual-release)_.

## Automatic releases

:::info
This is the default release mode for every newly created documentation
:::

Automatic release mode will publish any new deployed version to your documentation without the need for manual intervention. Everytime you send a new definition file to your documentation, changes will be made to both:

- Your main documentation page. Which will be updated with the latest deployed version.
- Your documentation changelog page. Which will be updated with the newly released API change.

> ## Manual releases

Reviewer 2: Should we add a `Beta` mention here?

Author: It's mentioned in a `caution` callout already, do you want it in the title too?

Reviewer 2: I know I just felt like it would be good to avoid any cognitive burden 😄 but maybe not necessary, leave it up to you or @jayk-u

Reviewer 3: The caution callout looks enough to me.

:::caution

> This release mode has recently been introduced to Bump.sh. Beware of the wet paint. Please <a class="intercom-launcher-selector" href="mailto:help@bump.sh">contact us</a> for any questions or feedback on this feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This release mode has recently been introduced to Bump.sh and is still in beta. Please <a class="intercom-launcher-selector" href="mailto:help@bump.sh">contact us</a> for any questions or feedback on this feature.
```

:::

> From your dashboard, select the documentation you would like to edit. From the documentation settings, reach the _Manual Release_ section and enable the setting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From your documentation settings, reach the _Manual Release_ section and enable the setting.
```

Reviewer 3: En théorie, on sait déjà où l'on se trouve pour atteindre cette partie.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![](/files/help/manual-release-toggle.png)

</div>

> From now on, every new deployment will be appear in your deployments list with the `Not released` status. As long as it remains in this status, the new version is not visible to consumers and the changelog remains unchanged.

Author: ```suggestion
From now on, every new deployment will appear in your deployments list with the `Not released` status. As long as it remains in this status, the new version is not visible to consumers and the changelog remains unchanged.
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![](/files/help/deployments-list-not-released.png)

</div>

> With this release mode, you can thus work on new deployments without impacting your documentation, nor your API consumers. And decide, when ready, to release the exact change you wish to publish on your documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Manual Release mode, you can thus work on new deployments without impacting your documentation, nor your API consumers. And decide, when ready, to release the exact change you wish to publish on your documentation.
```

To make sure to add clarity about what we are talking about?

## How to release a deployment

> From your documentation dashboard settings, in the deployments list tab, you can select a `Not released` deployment. From the selected deployment page, you can then decide to release whenever you need to publish your change by selecting the “Prepare Release” button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the deployments list tab, you can select a `Not released` deployment. From the selected deployment page, you can then decide to release whenever you need to publish your change by selecting the “Prepare Release” button.
```

![ADD A SCREENSHOT OF THE RELEASE BUTTON](https://bump.sh)

Before releasing your change, you can optionally customise the title and the description of your change which will be displayed in your API changelog once released.

![ADD A SCREENSHOT OF THE TITLE & DESCRIPTION FORM SCREEN](https://bump.sh)

Description of a release can be written with [Markdown syntax](/specifications-support/markdown-support.md) if needed.

## How to unrelease a deployment

> From your documentation dashboard settings, in the deployments list tab, you can select any `Released` deployment. From the selected deployment page, you can then decide to unrelease a previously published change by selecting the “Unrelease” button in the `…` button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the deployments list tab, you can select any `Released` deployment. From the selected deployment page, you can then decide to unrelease a previously published change by selecting the “Unrelease” button in the `…` button.
```
